typically investors will purchase stocks
in hopes that they will rise and in some
cases pay dividends but some speculate
that the price will Decline and just as
one can profit from a rising stock price
one can also profit from a drop in the
price short sellers can cause wild
fluctuations and
exaggerations in stocks as Traders
attempt to take advantage of events do
they pose a risk and danger in the
current market situation you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you today we will have a brief
discussion of what's going on with the
stock shorts right now I want to get
into it right away shorts flee the US
Equity Market okay very briefly what we
have here is a metric that is at a
threeyear low after reaching a high in
2016 this is the short interest versus
the float ratio in the US markets okay
so we have a peak right here in 2008
ever since then it has been declining
significantly this brings us back into
an area that is a few years old now I
just wanted to suggest that when you see
short sellers at a high in 2008 it
doesn't necessarily mean that the entire
Market is going to decline from here on
out that we can expect the crash okay
what we have is what I believe to a
large degree here of course there's a
lot of things going
on the short sellers have been pricing
in or anticipating I should say
that what Trump you know with with uh
Trump coming in right now that you can
see certain sectors of the economy are
predicted to do well under Trump certain
sectors of the economy are predicted to
not do well under Trump and this is
affecting individual stocks or
individual sectors not all together it's
not necessarily saying that look the
entire you know entire stock market is
going to crash right now or in this case
here you know there's less of a chance
of a crash than there was a few years
ago that's not what it says it works
more like individual stocks so keep that
in mind let's move on to this as an
interconnected chart where you see the
total short interest and once again we
come back into a few years ago right
here bringing you back into early
2014 one of the things that I wanted to
show you was you know this is the total
short interest versus the S&P
500 and while we we do see a correlation
right
now that sort of seemed to
converge in 2014 and ever since then
it's really been tracking the same
progress it's something that I found
interesting I wanted to bring that to
you my points from the previous chart
that still remain uh for
this the most shortened stocks so you're
looking at uh these particular stocks
which have been uh shorted right now and
you can see that over the past you know
let's call that uh over a year now that
this has been sort of trading in a Range
moving in a range and it has been you
know I would say not much change over
this past little while although the
chart is trying to suggest that things
are moving on a decline I would suggest
that
it's hard to tell from this chart but
we're looking at for the last year and a
bit we are seeing that there hasn't been
much movement in those so I believe that
they are still anticipating uh what we
had seen uh throughout this year this
year is the vix the
volatility index okay one thing that's
very clear is that volatility is
extremely high right now it does
fluctuate it has been going up and down
you can see a little difference here
that for that brief moment between 2015
and 2016 this had changed and now it's
just like it's gone ballistic the vix
and even look compared to what we had
seen during the financial crisis okay
and this is something that we need to
really pay attention to you know I once
had a senior VP of a financial
institution tell me I think this was in
2013 it could be
2012 probably 2012 actually tell me that
I need to trade the vix he said you got
to trade the vix that's going to be the
big money for
2012 and you
know looks like he was right but it's
just you know I told him that
you're basically trying to profit from
speculation entirely and he said yeah so
what that's that's the money that's
where you make the money and you know if
you know what you're doing look you can
make profit but it's just something that
I
mean where is the the real asset where
is the the fundamentals I mean you're
trading on things that are basically
fictional and that's where the market is
making a lot of money I'm Ling making a
lot of
um there's so much to be invested in all
of this senseless so-called Investments
you know you're buying junk bonds I mean
it says it in the name yet those are so
popular they are the driving force of
the bond market in many cases you know
you look at the yields on some of these
aaa's and nothing they're negative in a
lot of cases so people go to the junk
investors go to the junk they trade them
and they get junk back I'll tell you
that for sure all right look at this
this is just a couple of examples
Twitter stock short interest continues
to decline this is just one example I
wanted to show you that you know there
was a lot of um a lot of uh individuals
predicting more and more and more of a
decline in the uh stocks Twitter stocks
particular
and here they are declining in the
shorts is that a suggestion perhaps that
things are ready to increase not really
not necessarily I just think that uh the
market tends to overshoot in whatever it
is there's oh you know let's let's all
get on the bandwagon and then it goes
way too far and then it starts to back
up another one oh this one right here
put it in front short sellers are
cleaning up in Fitbit Fitbit got
destroyed throughout 20 16 this happens
to be yet another so you know you can
profit on the way up or the way down and
unfortunately a lot of uh investors a
lot of computer algorithms take
advantage of it and it really really
pushes stocks down it hurts a lot of
people uh that are really relying on
that this right here just one thing to
finish off with United States personal
income you can see year over year over
year
declines no coincidence that it's also
correlated with interest rates you bring
interest rates down people are not
willing to save and instead they get
into riskier and riskier Investments
they're going into the stock markets
they're getting into things they're not
comfortable with they think they know
they read a couple websites they follow
some people online they look at Jim
Kramer they look at the alternative news
perhaps following some garbage
investment advice they don't know what
they're doing
they end up losing their homes double
mortgages triple mortgages and all the
rest anyway if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs
up I tried to make it short I don't
think it works ever works but if you
found the video informative I know
you'll find my book The Money GPS even
more informative so head over to Amazon
where they have a look inside feature
that will allow you to flip through the
pages of the book and see if you like it
take
care now if you're still with with me
just wanted to let you know that I have
ordered finally ordered the proof
copy of my new book so it is officially
done totally done unfortunately I've
been told it's going to take 10 business
days so uh today being the first
business day it's going to be a little
while but anyway it's done I told you I
promised it'd be done it's going to get
here I'm going to read through it make
sure everything's good all the
formatting is good if that's the case it
should be up on uh Amazon very very soon
as soon as I can get through it just
quickly just read through it I'll make
sure it's good I'll put it up you guys
can have that I know a lot of you have
been asking and I'm very uh appreciative
of the support I've been getting take
care